# 112-music-harmonizer
The application serves as a learning tool for music that will generate harmony lines(in the form of sheet music and sound outputs) based off the melody line played/ sung. Some of the key features include finding the musical key of the user’s recording and also a virtual piano that they can play.

I have seen transposing software that raises/ lowers the notes of the input. I have not seen a harmony generate but the idea stemmed from incorporating those of key finders and musical synthesizers. This is a tool that uses music theory to allow the user to visualize instantly the music they are making. 

The four broad categories are the main graphical interface, the analyzers, the transposers, and the music players each stored in separate files. Prior to these steps there are two functions that record the input and play the input back.

Graphical interface

-	In the homepage, there is a function to draw the record and playback buttons, the record and play functions from another python file will be called here
-	In the KeyAndScale mode, There are three features: the virtual piano( to draw, there are drawWhiteKey, drawBlackKey and drawPiano functions ). There will be some functions that will aid in playing the piano called by both mousePressed and keyPressed. 
-	For drawing the sheet music, there are a few functions: yPositionCalc, getPositionOfNote, drawLine and drawNode, which aid in drawing the lines and notes depending on the values of frequencies and midis generated by the analysers.
-	The keyPressed function calls the various analyser and ply functions from the other python files.
Analyzers
-	In a separate python file, there are two functions that analyze and generate the first set of required note values of the song. The names of those functions are analyseWave() and formatMidiListFromPitches()
-	In another file, there are some functions called getNoteAndMidi(),filterNewList() and findKey(). These functions format the notes in desirable formats which would allow them to be accessed and processed efficiently by the sound processors.

Transposer
-	This is the getHarmonyLine function that generates the harmony based off of the melody. 

Music Player
-	These functions are in a separate file and they perform the task of playing the notes together and as commanded by the user. The utilize the formatted values generated by the analyzers to play these notes.

All these functions are called by the controller function in the Graphical interface.

The main algorithm is generating the output harmony notes when being provided a wav file. The process of filtering the sound to be analyzed, and using various combinations of midi values and notes along with their time durations (which had to be calculated) all constitute the algorithmic structure. Generating harmonies by transposing could be a simple process, but it is possible that the user can sing or play in any key and the program must change its values according to the key. Therefore, it was necessary to find the key of the song using its midi notes and a chart derived from applying theory of music. 

